.\" Manpage for piepro.
.\" Contact https://github.com/andrewteall/pi-eeprom-programmer/issues to correct errors or typos.

.TH piepro 1 "15 Sep 2023" "1.0.0" "User Commands"

.SH NAME
piepro \- Read and Write EEPROMS via Raspberry pi 4/400 GPIO

.SH SYNOPSIS
piepro [OPTION]...

.SH DESCRIPTION
piepro is a program to read and write EEPROMS via Raspberry pi 4/400 GPIO

.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options too.

.I
.B  -c,  --compare  
.RS             
Compare FILE and EEPROM and print number of differences.
.RE

.I
.B --chipname      
.RS
Specify the chipname to use. Default: gpiochip0
.RE

.I
.B  -d,  --dump [N]
.RS 
Dump the contents of the EEPROM, 0=PRETTY, 1=BINARY, 2=TEXT, 3=LABELED. Default: PRETTY
.RE

.I
.B  -e [N],  --erase [N]
.RS 
Erase eeprom with specified byte. Default: 0xFF
.RE

.I
.B  -f,  --force
.RS
Force writing of every byte instead of checking for existing value first.
.RE

.I
.B  -id, --i2c-device-id
.RS
The address id of the I2C device.
.RE

.I
.B  -h,  --help
.RS
Print this message and exit.
.RE

.I
.B  -l,  --limit N
.RS 
Specify the maximum address to operate.
.RE

.I
.B  -m,  --model MODEL
.RS
Specify EERPOM device model. Default: AT28C16.
.RE

.I
.B       --no-validate-write
.RS
Do not perform a read directly after writing to verify the data was written.
.RE

.I
.B  -r,  --read [N]
.RS
Read the contents of the EEPROM, 0=PRETTY, 1=BINARY, 2=TEXT, 3=LABELED. Default: PRETTY
.RE

.I
.B  -rb, --read-byte ADDRESS
.RS
Read From specified ADDRESS.
.RE

.I
.B  -q [N],  --quick [N]    
.RS
Operates on N bytes at once for reads. Page Size if unspecified or writes. Implied --force and --no-validate-write.
.RE

.I
.B  -s,  --start N
.RS
Specify the minimum address to operate.
.RE

.I
.B  -t,  --text
.RS
Interpret file as a text. Default: binary
.RS
Text File format: 
[00000000]00000000 00000000
.RE
.RE

.I
.B  -v,  --v[vvvv]
.RS
Set the log verbosity to N, 0=OFF, 1=FATAL, 2=ERROR, 3=WARNING, 4=INFO, 5=DEBUG. Default: WARNING
.RE

.I
.B  --version
.RS
Print the piepro version and exit.
.RE

.I
.B  -w,  --write
.RS
Write EEPROM with specified file.
.RE

.I
.B  -wb, --write-byte ADDRESS DATA
.RS
Write specified DATA to ADDRESS.
.RE

.I
.B  -wd, --write-delay
.RS
Enable write delay. N Number of microseconds to delay between writes.
.RE

.I
.B  -y, --yes
.RS
Automatically answer Yes to write or erase EEPROM.
.RE

.SH NUMBER FORMATTING
Numbers can be formatted in several ways:
Decimal: 0-9
Hexadecimal: 0x0-[fF] or $0-[fF]
Binary: 00b0-1 or %0-1

.SH QUIRKS
--no-validate-write has no affect on I2C devices.

.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
.SH AUTHOR
Andrew Teall https://github.com/andrewteall/pi-eeprom-programmer/issues